# Perlin Noise Terrain Generator

This project generates noise patterns using Perlin Noise and converts them into terrain shapes with customizable elevations and colors.

Whic served [here on github](https://mrkerim.github.io/RPS/Other/Perlin%20Noise/index.html)

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Perlin Noise Generation](#perlin-noise-generation)
- [Terrain Island Generation](#terrain-island-generation)
- [Island Function](#island-function)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [License](#license)

## Introduction

This project utilizes Perlin Noise to create detailed and natural-looking terrain patterns, which are then transformed into island shapes. Each generated island features custom elevation mapping and coloration based on the Perlin Noise values.

## Perlin Noise Generation

Perlin Noise is generated by interpolating values from a grid of unit vectors. Each pixel's noise value is calculated based on the contributions from the four surrounding unit vectors and the distance vector.

### Functions Used:

#### Fade Function

The fade function `fade(t)` smooths out the transitions between noise values.

```javascript
const fade = (t) => {
	return t * t * t * (t * (t * 6 - 15) + 10);
};
```

#### Lerp Function

The linear interpolation function lerp(t, a, b) blends values a and b based on the interpolation factor t.

```javascript
const lerp = (t, a, b) => {
	return a + t * (b - a);
};
```

### Terrain Island Generation

The Perlin Noise values are then mapped to custom elevation levels. Islands are shaped using a sinusoidal wave function to create natural-looking terrain features.

### Island Function

I use sum of two different frequency and amplitude sine waves to produce the x-axis wave. Y-axis is just another sine wave with same frequency.

For any pixel in the map by $x$ and $y$ $map_{xy} = map_{xy} \cdot k_{y} \cdot k_{x} $
$k\_{y} = \sin({\pi y }/H)^{2}$ where $H$ is the pixel height.

$k_{x} = \sin({2\pi \cdot x }/W)^{2} + t_{x}\cdot \sin({\pi \cdot x }/W)^{2}$
Where $W$ is the pixel width and $t_{x}$ is the frequency coefficient

If we take $t_{x} = 1$ here is the expected graph on $x$
[graph](src/sine.jpg)
And here is the island image
[island_image](src/island.jpg)

### Usage

Use pixel number to define a grid size, map will be the same size, and select a layer number to generate more detail.

After the genration you can assign an elevation level to a spesific color.
Also use the island function to create islands.

### License

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2024 Kerim Selçuk Terzi

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
